DB5.3_DUMP(1)		    General Commands Manual		 DB5.3_DUMP(1)

NAME
       db5.3_dump - Write database to flat-text format

SYNOPSIS
       db5.3_dump [-klNpRrV] [-d ahr] [-f output] [-h home] [-P password] [-s
       database] file

DESCRIPTION
       The db5.3_dump utility reads the database file file and writes it to
       the standard output using a portable flat-text format understood by the
       db5.3_load utility.  The file argument must be a file produced using
       the Berkeley DB library functions.

OPTIONS
       -d     Dump the specified database in a format helpful for debugging
	      the Berkeley DB library routines.

	      a      Display all information.

	      h      Display only page headers.

	      r      Do not display the free-list or pages on the free list.
		     This mode is used by the recovery tests.

	      The output format of the -d option is not standard and may
	      change, without notice, between releases of the Berkeley DB
	      library.

       -f     Write to the specified file instead of to the standard output.

       -h     Specify a home directory for the database environment; by
	      default, the current working directory is used.

       -k     Dump record numbers from Queue and Recno databases as keys.

       -l     List the databases stored in the file.

       -N     Do not acquire shared region mutexes while running.  Other
	      problems, such as potentially fatal errors in Berkeley DB, will
	      be ignored as well.  This option is intended only for debugging
	      errors, and should not be used under any other circumstances.

       -P     Specify an environment password.	Although Berkeley DB utilities
	      overwrite password strings as soon as possible, be aware there
	      may be a window of vulnerability on systems where unprivileged
	      users can see command-line arguments or where utilities are not
	      able to overwrite the memory containing the command-line
	      arguments.

       -p     If characters in either the key or data items are printing
	      characters (as defined by isprint(3)), use printing characters
	      in file to represent them.  This option permits users to use
	      standard text editors and tools to modify the contents of
	      databases.

	      Note: different systems may have different notions about what
	      characters are considered printing characters, and databases
	      dumped in this manner may be less portable to external systems.

       -R     Aggressively salvage data from a possibly corrupt file.  The -R
	      flag differs from the -r option in that it will return all
	      possible data from the file at the risk of also returning
	      already deleted or otherwise nonsensical items.  Data dumped in
	      this fashion will almost certainly have to be edited by hand or
	      other means before the data is ready for reload into another
	      database

       -r     Salvage data from a possibly corrupt file.  When used on a
	      uncorrupted database, this option should return equivalent data
	      to a normal dump, but most likely in a different order.

       -s     Specify a single database to dump.  If no database is specified,
	      all databases in the database file are dumped.

       -V     Write the library version number to the standard output, and
	      exit.

       Dumping and reloading Hash databases that use user-defined hash
       functions will result in new databases that use the default hash
       function.  Although using the default hash function may not be optimal
       for the new database, it will continue to work correctly.

       Dumping and reloading Btree databases that use user-defined prefix or
       comparison functions will result in new databases that use the default
       prefix and comparison functions.  In this case, it is quite likely that
       the database will be damaged beyond repair permitting neither record
       storage or retrieval.

       The only available workaround for either case is to modify the sources
       for the db5.3_load utility to load the database using the correct hash,
       prefix, and comparison functions.

       The db5.3_dump utility output format is documented in the Dump Output
       Formats section of the Berkeley DB Reference Guide.

       The db5.3_dump utility may be used with a Berkeley DB environment (as
       described for the -h option, the environment variable DB_HOME, or
       because the utility was run in a directory containing a Berkeley DB
       environment).  In order to avoid environment corruption when using a
       Berkeley DB environment, db5.3_dump should always be given the chance
       to detach from the environment and exit gracefully.  To cause
       db5.3_dump to release all environment resources and exit cleanly, send
       it an interrupt signal (SIGINT).

       Even when using a Berkeley DB database environment, the db5.3_dump
       utility does not use any kind of database locking if it is invoked with
       the -d, -R, or -r arguments.   If used with one of these arguments, the
       db5.3_dump utility may only be safely run on databases that are not
       being modified by any other process; otherwise, the output may be
       corrupt.

       The db5.3_dump utility exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.

ENVIRONMENT
       DB_HOME
	      If the -h option is not specified and the environment variable
	      DB_HOME is set, it is used as the path of the database home, as
	      described in DB_ENV->open.

AUTHORS
       Sleepycat Software, Inc. This manual page was created based on the HTML
       documentation for db_dump from Sleepycat, by Thijs Kinkhorst
       <thijs@kinkhorst.com>, for the Debian system (but may be used by
       others).

				28 January 2005 		 DB5.3_DUMP(1)
