edid-decode(1)		    General Commands Manual		edid-decode(1)

NAME
       edid-decode - Decode EDID data in human-readable format

SYNOPSIS
       edid-decode <options> [in [out]]

DESCRIPTION
       edid-decode decodes EDID monitor description data in human-readable
       format.	If [in] is not given, or [in] is '-', then the EDID will be
       read from standard input. If [out] is given then the EDID that was read
       from [in] is written to [out] or to standard output if [out] is '-'. By
       default the output is written as a hex dump when writing to standard
       output or a raw EDID if written to a file.

       If [out] is given then edid-decode only does the conversion, it will
       skip the decoding step.

       Input files may be raw binaries or ASCII text.  ASCII input is scanned
       for hex dumps; heuristics are included to search for hexdumps in edid-
       decode(1) output (as long as the initial hex dump was included),
       xrandr(1) property output and Xorg(1) log file formats, otherwise the
       data is treated as a raw hexdump.  EDID blocks for connected monitors
       can be found in /sys/class/drm/*/edid on modern Linux systems with
       kernel modesetting support.

STANDARDS
       The following EDID standards are supported by edid-decode:

	      EDID 1.3: VESA Enhanced Extended Display Identication Data
	      Standard, Release A, Revision 1

	      EDID 1.4: VESA Enhanced Extended Display Identication Data
	      Standard, Release A, Revision 2

	      DisplayID 1.3: VESA Display Identification Data (DisplayID)
	      Standard, Version 1.3

	      DisplayID 2.0: VESA DisplayID Standard, Version 2.0

	      DI-EXT: VESA Display Information Extension Block Standard,
	      Release A

	      LS-EXT: VESA Enhanced EDID Localized String Extension Standard,
	      Release A

	      VTB-EXT: VESA Video Timing Block Extension Data Standard,
	      Release A

	      HDMI 1.4b: High-Definition Multimedia Interface, Version 1.4b

	      HDMI 2.1: High-Definition Multimedia Interface, Version 2.1

	      HDMI 2.1: Amendment A1 to HDMI Specification Version 2.1

	      CTA-861-G: A DTV Profile for Uncompressed High Speed Digital
	      Interfaces

	      SPWG Notebook Panel Specification, Version 3.5

	      EPI Embedded Panel Interface, Revision 1.0

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
	      Prints the help message.

       -o, --output-format=<fmt>
	      If [out] is specified, then write the EDID in format <fmt>.
	      The output format can be one of:
	      hex: hex numbers in ascii text (default for stdout)
	      raw: binary data (default unless writing to stdout)
	      carray: c-program struct

       -c, --check
	      Check if the EDID conforms to the standards. Warnings and
	      failures are reported at the end.

       -C, --check-inline
	      Check if the EDID conforms to the standards. Warnings and
	      failures are reported as they happen.

       -s, --skip-hex-dump
	      Skip the initial hex dump of the EDID.

       --skip-sha
	      Don't show the SHA hash. Normally edid-decode will show the SHA,
	      i.e. the hash of the git commit used to compile edid-decode.
	      This uniquely identifies the version of edid-decode that is used
	      to generate the warnings and failures. But it will also change
	      the output of edid-decode for every new commit in the git
	      repository, even if nothing else changed in the edid-decode
	      output.  Use this option to avoid including the SHA in the edid-
	      decode output.

       -e, --extract
	      Extract the contents of the first block in hex values.  This was
	      always done in old edid-decode versions. To get the same
	      behavior add this option.

NOTES
       Not all fields are decoded, or decoded completely.  Some fields'
       decoding may appear to corrupt the output (for example, detailed string
       sections have their contents printed literally).  edid-decode does
       attempt to validate its input against the relevant standards, but its
       opinions have not been double-checked with the relevant standards
       bodies, so they may be wrong.  Do not rely on the output format, as it
       will likely change in future versions of the tool as additional fields
       and extensions are added.

SEE ALSO
       Xorg(1), xrandr(1)

AUTHORS
       edid-decode was written by Adam Jackson, with contributions from Eric
       Anholt, Damien Lespiau, Hans Verkuil and others.  For complete history
       and the latest version, see http://git.linuxtv.org/cgit.cgi/edid-
       decode.git

								edid-decode(1)
