mount.zfs(8)		System Administration Commands		  mount.zfs(8)

NAME
       mount.zfs - mount a ZFS filesystem

SYNOPSIS
       mount.zfs [-sfnvh] [-o options] dataset mountpoint

DESCRIPTION
       mount.zfs is part of the zfsutils package for Linux. It is a helper
       program that is usually invoked by the mount(8) or zfs(8) commands to
       mount a ZFS dataset.

       All options are handled according to the FILESYSTEM INDEPENDENT MOUNT
       OPTIONS section in the mount(8) manual, except for those described
       below.

       The dataset parameter is a ZFS filesystem name, as output by the zfs
       list -H -o name command. This parameter never has a leading slash
       character and is not a device name.

       The mountpoint parameter is the path name of a directory.

OPTIONS
       -s     Ignore bad or sloppy mount options.

       -f     Do a fake mount; do not perform the mount operation.

       -n     Do not update the /etc/mtab file.

       -v     Increase verbosity.

       -h     Print the usage message.

       -o context
	      This flag sets the SELinux context for all files in the
	      filesystem under that mountpoint.

       -o fscontext
	      This flag sets the SELinux context for the filesystem being
	      mounted.

       -o defcontext
	      This flag sets the SELinux context for unlabeled files.

       -o rootcontext
	      This flag sets the SELinux context for the root inode of the
	      filesystem.

       -o legacy
	      This private flag indicates that the dataset has an entry in the
	      /etc/fstab file.

       -o noxattr
	      This private flag disables extended attributes.

       -o xattr
	      This private flag enables directory-based extended attributes
	      and, if appropriate, adds a ZFS context to the selinux system
	      policy.

       -o saxattr
	      This private flag enables system attributed-based extended
	      attributes and, if appropriate, adds a ZFS context to the
	      selinux system policy.

       -o dirxattr
	      Equivalent to xattr.

       -o zfsutil
	      This private flag indicates that mount(8) is being called by the
	      zfs(8) command.

NOTES
       ZFS conventionally requires that the mountpoint be an empty directory,
       but the Linux implementation inconsistently enforces the requirement.

       The mount.zfs helper does not mount the contents of zvols.

FILES
       /etc/fstab	 The static filesystem table.

       /etc/mtab	 The mounted filesystem table.

AUTHORS
       The primary author of mount.zfs is Brian Behlendorf
       <behlendorf1@llnl.gov>.

       This man page was written by Darik Horn <dajhorn@vanadac.com>.

SEE ALSO
       fstab(5), mount(8), zfs(8)

ZFS on Linux			  2013 FEB 28			  mount.zfs(8)
